Week 1: Fixing Doc Build Warnings and Introducing RingSlider
=============================================================

.. post:: June 1, 2026
   :author: Medha Bhardwaj
   :tags: google
   :category: gsoc

The first week of the coding period has been a productive start. This week, I primarily worked on two contributions:

- Fixing documentation build warnings across the FURY codebase.
- Completing the migration of the ``RingSlider2D`` to the new PyGfx implementation.

Both of these pull requests were successfully merged during the week.

Overview
--------

This week, I worked on the following pull requests:

- Fix documentation build warnings (`#1164 <https://github.com/fury-gl/fury/pull/1164>`_)
- Port ``RingSlider2D`` to v2 architecture (`#1121 <https://github.com/fury-gl/fury/pull/1121>`_)

Fixing Documentation Build Warnings
------------------------------------

I opened this pull request during the community bonding period and continued refining the changes and discussing them with maintainers during the first week of the coding period.

While building the documentation locally using::

   make -C . clean && make -C . html-no-examples

I encountered dozens of warnings. Most of them originated from ``.rst`` files, while a few were related to attributes that were intended to be private but were not documented as such.

I went through the warnings individually, updating documentation where necessary and removing outdated or redundant content. Since many of the warnings were repetitive, this was a good opportunity to become more familiar with the project's documentation structure and conventions. After review and discussion, the pull request was merged successfully.

Working on RingSlider2D and PyGfx Migration
--------------------------------------------

I also continued work on ``RingSlider2D`` and its migration to the new PyGfx implementation.

Most of the work this week involved fixing bugs, polishing the implementation, and ensuring that the slider behaved correctly. Through testing and feedback, I identified a number of smaller issues that needed to be addressed before the feature was ready to be merged.

After making the necessary fixes and final refinements, the pull request was merged successfully.

What I Learned
--------------

Beyond the code itself, this week helped me better understand some of the development practices followed within FURY.

One thing that stood out was the importance of maintaining a clean repository history. Through reviews and discussions, I learned how presenting work in a smaller number of meaningful commits makes changes easier to review, understand, and track in the future. It is a simple practice, but one that has a significant impact on project maintenance in the long term.

Overall, it was encouraging to start the coding period by gaining a deeper understanding of both the codebase and the contribution workflow.

Next Week
---------

Next week, I plan to work on the following tasks:

- Enable the version switcher on the FURY website.
- Address review comments and complete the ``TextBox2D`` PyGfx implementation pull request.
- Better understand the FURY documentation workflow.
- Explore Sphinx Gallery and understand how it can be used to improve the documentation workflow.

Connect with Me
---------------

- GitHub: `medha-14 <https://github.com/medha-14>`_
- LinkedIn: `Medha Bhardwaj <https://www.linkedin.com/in/medhabhardwaj/>`_
