Part of the Journey is the end unless its Open Source!
======================================================

.. post:: August 23 2020
   :author: Soham Biswas
   :tags: google
   :category: gsoc

Hello and welcome to my final weekly check-in. Today officially marks the end of  the coding period for GSoC 2020. I enjoyed every bit of it. This was a life-changing experience for me and now I observe and interpret everything from a different perspective altogether. I have grown into a better developer and a person since GSoC. I would like to thank all my mentors and especially Serge for his immense support and mentorship. I would love to contribute to fury even after GSoC is over but unfortunately my semester break is over so I won't be as active as I was during the summer.

Now, regarding work I will be sharing my progress with the File Dialog UI component. The official repository of my sub-org can be found `here <https://github.com/fury-gl/fury/>`_.

What did you do this week?
--------------------------
This week I worked on the File Dialog UI component. Fury previously had a FileMenu component which could browse through the file system but we needed a dialog like implementation for it so that its easier for the users to read and write files during runtime. I tried implementing a simple design for it. It specifically has two modes, one for saving files and the other for writing files. The implementation can be demonstrated as follows:

Open Dialog:
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image :: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29832615/90978632-df12c780-e56c-11ea-8517-6243ea06bdd2.gif

Save Dialog:
^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. image :: https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29832615/90978638-eafe8980-e56c-11ea-835a-3a82ccee2973.gif

What is coming up next week?
----------------------------
Next week I will start with my final GSoC documentation and code submission. I will also try to implement the tests and tutorials for File Dialog or any further changes requested by my mentors. If I am not able to finish it within the next week, I will get it done after GSoC.

Did you get stuck anywhere?
---------------------------
I did not face any major issues this week.

``Thank you all for your love and support. ❤️😄``
